---
title: "Ocean Beach Surf Trip 2025"
date: 2025-01-15T09:35:21-08:00
draft: false
tags:
- surf
- cali
---

No surprise, but my brother and I made our annual surf trip to San Diego this
year. This time, I decided to see what life was like with more of the locals in
Ocean Beach as opposed to the tourist-heavy Pacific Beach/La Jolla.

## Listing out the activites we did

### Friday 1/10

Flew out around 3PM CST and had a whole row to ourselves. Flew in at 5PM Pacific
time. Ubered to the hostel and checked in. Then we went to the BBQ place and
watched the Texas vs Ohio State game(Ohio won).

### Saturday 1/11

Day one of the trip and there were some growing pains with the hostel. Lots of
snoring, so didn't really get a ton of sleep, but woke up around 6:30AM and just
went to OB coffee roasters. Super cool place, the wifi just sucked in the back
and I eventually just called the Madre and said what's up.

We actually we to Newbreak prior to surfing because I was hungry. I also wanted
to show Henry the waves. I got a croissant and Henry got one too but without the
aioli.

After that, Henry joined me at the coffee shop and we went back, grabbed our
wetsuits and hit the surf. We were both super out of shape and just worked on
our pop-ups in the white water. The waves were pretty strong right by the pier,
and since we were new to the spot, we just kind of accepted that we wouldn't
make it out to the surf with out foamies and enjoyed trying to catch waves in
the whitewater.

Then, we just kinda walked around and explored OB a bit. Walked all the way to
north OB and then settled with eating at the OB Surf Shed right by our hostel,
lol. We watched the game a bit while we ate and then went back to the hostel and
finished watching the wolves game(tough loss). Then called it early.

### Sunday 1/12

OB Coffee in the morning?

Beach day watching the Bills and hitting Newbreak for breakfast. Explored the
different spots of OB by starting closer to the pier and eventually moving to
the jetty on the north side. Had a super fun sunset surf session and then Henry
and I watched the sunset. Then, we went back to the BBQ place actually and
watched the Commanders vs the Buccaneers game, which was super fun to watch.

### Monday 1/13

This morning went right to La Jolla and got and expensive breakfast at
Shorehouse Kitchen. Super good food, can't complain. Then, we went kayaking at
Everyday California in the La Jolla Cove. Super fun.

We Ubered back around 3PM and went for a night surf that evening. Don't surf at
low tide, I might have messed up my foot. Then we watched the Vikings suck at a
pizza brewery in OB and we just called it early.

### Tuesday 1/14

This morning I went to an espresso bar and then Henry and I started surfing
around 9:30AM this morning. I hobbled my way to the jetty and we got into the
line-up. There were some solid waves, probably 5-8ft waves, but Henry and I
weren't quite ready for that, so we hit the waist-high sloping waves closer to
the jetty. Then, we cleaned up, and made our way up to Encinidas to see the
Sophies.

The public transport was pretty fun on the way up and it took us ~1h30 to get
there by bus/trolly. We met up with them at the state beach, walked around a bit
and got a bite at Fish 101. Afterwards, we went up to their place, chatted and
had a drink and saw Shu & Shaun. Then around 8:30 H and I had to dip and made
our way back, finally getting back around 10:30.

### Wednesday 1/15

Had to say goodbye to Lance as it was "too cold" for him in California. Hit
Newbreak for breakfast and now I'm all caught up.

![Henry & Elise](/image/h-and-e-ob.jpeg)
